OPEN 3D ENGINE LICENSING
The default license for Open 3D Engine is the Apache License, Version 2.0 
(see LICENSE_APACHE2.TXT); you may elect at your option to use the Open 3D 
Engine under the MIT License (see LICENSE_MIT.TXT).  Contributions must be 
made under both licenses.
 
THIRD PARTY COMPONENTS
Open 3D Engine requires the use of (and in some cases makes available to you) 
software and assets that have been developed by third parties and are subject 
to separate license terms (such as code licensed under other open source 
licenses).  It is your responsibility to comply with the applicable licenses. 
Information on third party materials, and the applicable license terms, are 
referenced in or included with the materials, such as in separate LICENSE.txt 
files accompanying the materials.

Third party components with license-identification SPDX tags are logged in 
the 3P repository at https://github.com/o3de/3p-package-source. For more 
information on applying SPDX tags to O3DE components properly, see 
https://www.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/build/packages/#o3de-package-structure.
 
Please note that certain materials are subject to "copyleft" licenses, which 
require distribution of source code, including:
 
- Qt Toolkit https://github.com/qtproject/, which is subject to the GNU 
Lesser General Public License version 3 (with certain exceptions). A copy of 
the source code for Qt Toolkit may be found at 
https://github.com/o3de/qt5/tree/5.15.1-o3de
 
- The AWS Python SDK uses Chardet https://chardet.github.io/, which is 
subject to the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1. A copy of the 
source code may be found at https://github.com/chardet/chardet.
 
