# Package list for Ubuntu 22.04

# Build Tools Packages
clang                                   # For the compiler and its dependencies
ninja-build                             # For Ninja Build System
java-11-amazon-corretto-jdk             # For Jenkins and Android

# Build Libraries
libglu1-mesa-dev                        # For Qt (GL dependency)
libxcb-xinerama0                        # For Qt plugins at runtime
libxcb-xinput0                          # For Qt plugins at runtime
libfontconfig1-dev                      # For Qt plugins at runtime
libcurl4-openssl-dev                    # For HttpRequestor
libpcre2-16-0                           # For Qt plugins at runtime
libssl-dev                              # For system default OpenSSL
libxcb-xkb-dev                          # For xcb keyboard input
libxkbcommon-x11-dev                    # For xcb keyboard input
libxkbcommon-dev                        # For xcb keyboard input
libxcb-xfixes0-dev                      # For mouse input
libxcb-xinput-dev                       # For mouse input
zlib1g-dev
mesa-common-dev
ros-humble-ackermann-msgs               # ROS2 development tools
ros-humble-control-toolbox              # ROS2 development tools
ros-humble-gazebo-msgs                  # ROS2 development tools
ros-humble-tf2-ros                      # ROS2 development tools
ros-humble-urdfdom                      # ROS2 development tools
ros-humble-vision-msgs                  # ROS2 development tools
libunwind-dev
libzstd-dev
